# LinuxZorinScripts_LaComptedevelopedfiles
La Compte scripts developed for the purpose of maintaining Linux maintenance and associated work.

# Files Uploaded
All are bash files based on the requirement of La Compte work on Zorin OS Core 17.3 towards ensuring NHSD, KKO and La Compte Files as well as Reach to be Heard Files are stored on the relevant accessible Onedrive. This Onedrive is hosted by La Compte for access to all four entities.



La Compte acknowledges that the scripts were developed with the assistance of Claude Pro using Sonnet 4.4. However, La Compte consistently checked the bash first first to ensure it was functional and was fulfilling requirements, and furthermore, to make improvements based on our requirements.

Note: all code generated after "ddscript.sh" has been generated using Claude Pro using Sonnet 4.6, but has been confirmed, like the rest of the scripts, using testing data and testing source references. These scripts are working and are validated.

All uploaded bash files will be highlighted based on date of upload.

## Upload date: 3 April 2026
### classify_project_files.sh
This specific file is meant to allocate a logfile based on already uploaded materials on the onedrive, so that when the fresh "copy_to_onedrive_improved.sh" bash script is run, it does not reupload the same files twice. It is specifically scripted with the purpose of guiding on what the files are, where they belong in the Onedrive folders, and what type they are accordingly.
### copy_to_onedrive_improved.sh
This is a three part bash file. It first identifies the folders from which the files will be uploaded on to Onedrive. These files and folders are identified in terms of their filetype (for this, they are PDF, CDR, AI, DOCX, DOC, XLSX and so on) as well as their folder name (La Compte, Reach to be Heard, NHSD, KKO). The second part confirms whether the Onedrive token is validated and is working. Once this is activated, it then proceeds to upload all relevant files according to their folder classification and type. It concludes by sharing a log file which highlights what files were uploaded, how long it took, where they are stored, and what time it began and ended. This is also used by this script to ensure duplication is not undertaken during the process.
### log_previous_backup.sh
This is to generate a logfile. In the original version of "copy_to_onedrive.sh", there was no logfile which was uploaded and the files were simply uploaded in OneDrive into a single folder That was structured as "ZORINFILES_$(date)". This is fine if you want to simply use the Onedrive built in search function and thus are willing to let Onedrive undertake indexing in the background, but functionally it is not concerned with duplication because that was not considered. Essentially, this particular bash was simply confirming that the previous backups had happened and the files they contain are as under. This also prevented duplication and also ensured that the files were uploaded in their relevant folders, per the requirements, and were validated.
### rsync-resource-limited_2.sh
This is a sample script for being able to run rsync through prompts. It is an attempt to slightly automate the rsync process by simply selecting the files to be run via rsync for transfer. In the original script there were also variables for $CORES and $RAM so as to utilize systemd resource allocation for faster file transfers. However, this one is only focused on Source and Destination for the time being. Those can be edited to suit the requirements of bash script users. In my setting I have 16GB DDR3 1333MHZ RAM and I allocated 4 cores (I have a Core i7 4th Gen processor, but I found that 4 is a reasonable amount to use for the purpose of doing these rsync processes). 
### ddscript.sh
_Note: this script runs "lsblk -la" first through which you can determine the mount points and ergo, the source and destination. The destination has to be larger than the source for dd to be successful. This is highlighted in the script._
This is an automated prompt based script which uses Linux dd. dd (called dejá dup, but really it ought to be called disk duplicator) is a cloning and imaging tool specifically baked into Linux for the purpose of making images and clone drives for data protection and then restoration in later dates. Whilst the more user friendly approach is using Rescuezilla (which by the way is a Clonezilla GUI variant that is also open source. Clonezilla is purely prompt based and also it uses dd but layered with other Clonezilla backend SHA256 and MD5 checksum frameworks, alongside other means of data integrity confirmations), a more common, and definitely better known option, is GNOME Disks Utility. Or Disks. It basically allows you to run smarttests using the GUI, make resizing or whatever through it, and even allows you to create and restore directly from the interface. Disks uses dd in the backend actually.
In both Disks and dd, the thing to remember is that you do not have any data saved except that which is in the source. All data in the destination is gone.
This specific script is focused towards helping provide a basic pathway for general users so that they can make clones of drives. It explicitly  warns about the loss of data and even advises on how to create images using dd too.
This script was tested to ensure that the code is functional. I used two spare USB thumbdrives to check whether it would work. The original script had "2>~/dderror.log" as an additional feature which did not allow the progress to be shown as stderr overrode status=progress and instead pasted that output into dderror.log. Hence this portion was removed and instead regular status=progress has been included. That also highlights how much data was cloned from source to destination.
### rsync-resource-limited.sh
This particular script is slightly different to the second one. Here, it is not going to offer prompts but is instead focused towards you updating the script with your source, destination, cores and ram. Based on your machine. By default it is recommended to keep the Cores at default to "0-4". You can go with higher if you are using a core i8 or higher, but for those who are using Core i7 or Core i5 machines (especially those in the 4th or 5th Generation) then it is recommended to keep to 0-4. RAM limit can be increased or decreased depending on how quickly you want your data to be tranferred via rsync. The source and destination are fairly straightforward - where is your data, and where are you copying it to.
More accurately where is it being synced into, whilst maintaining its metadata and all key features. And both sides are kept available when required.
### filelistingscript.sh
This is a fully built script from the ground up meant to essentially provide feedback to the user with one purpose:
It combs through your specific folder, and based on the threshold (in GB), it first lists out the folders (up to a maximum depth of 3) followed by listing individuals files by file size and file name, in GB up to two decimal places.
The script has a section which can be edited to suit the specific file types of the user. In this example case it was the extensions 7z, ISO, tar.gz, deb, and zip files. But it can be expanded to suit whatever is required by the user for the purpose of their working.
This is a listing script, but it helps in identifying the heaviest files in your computer from the ground up. And building up from there.